skills/memory-save/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: memory-save
description: |
  Save important information to persistent memory for future conversations.
  Use this to remember user preferences, important facts, or relationship details.
  Memory is append-only and cannot be deleted, only disabled.
parameters:
  type: object
  properties:
    content:
      type: string
      description: The memory content to save (plain text)
    visibility:
      type: string
      enum: [public, private]
      default: public
      description: |
        - public: visible in all contexts
        - private: only visible in DM contexts
    importance:
      type: string
      enum: [high, normal]
      default: normal
      description: |
        - high: always loaded into context
        - normal: retrieved via search
  required: [content]
---

# Memory Save Skill

This skill allows you to save important information that should persist across conversations.

## When to Use

- Remember user preferences or settings
- Store important relationship details
- Save facts that will be useful in future interactions

## Guidelines

- Keep memories concise and factual
- Use `importance: high` sparingly for critical information
- Use `visibility: private` for sensitive personal information (only in DM)

## Example

Save a user's preference:

```json
{
  "content": "User prefers to be called by nickname 'Alex'",
  "visibility": "public",
  "importance": "normal"
}
```

Commit message:

feat: add MCP tool provider for external AI agent integration
- Add @modelcontextprotocol/sdk and zod dependencies to deno.json
- Create src/mcp/server.ts with MCP server implementation exposing 5 tools
- Register memory_save, memory_search, memory_patch, send_reply, fetch_context tools
- Add MCP environment types and module exports
- Update AGENTS.md with MCP architecture diagram and documentation
- Add mcp:start and mcp:dev tasks for running MCP server
- Update all SKILL.md files with mcp_tool field and MCP usage sections
- Create docs/MCP.md with comprehensive MCP integration guide

This enables GitHub Copilot CLI, VS Code Copilot, and other MCP-compatible
hosts to interact with the chatbot's memory system and context features
via stdio JSON-RPC protocol, providing an alternative to ACP client mode.

Signed-off-by: Jim Chen <Jim@ChenJ.im>

skills/memory-save/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: memory-save
mcp_tool: memory_save
description: |
  Save important information to persistent memory for future conversations.
  Use this to remember user preferences, important facts, or relationship details.
  Memory is append-only and cannot be deleted, only disabled.
parameters:
  type: object
  properties:
    content:
      type: string
      description: The memory content to save (plain text)
    visibility:
      type: string
      enum: [public, private]
      default: public
      description: |
        - public: visible in all contexts
        - private: only visible in DM contexts
    importance:
      type: string
      enum: [high, normal]
      default: normal
      description: |
        - high: always loaded into context
        - normal: retrieved via search
  required: [content]
---

# Memory Save Skill

This skill allows you to save important information that should persist across conversations.

## MCP Tool

This skill is exposed as an MCP tool: `memory_save`

To use via MCP, call the `memory_save` tool with the parameters described above.

## When to Use

- Remember user preferences or settings
- Store important relationship details
- Save facts that will be useful in future interactions

## Guidelines

- Keep memories concise and factual
- Use `importance: high` sparingly for critical information
- Use `visibility: private` for sensitive personal information (only in DM)

## Example

Save a user's preference:

```json
{
  "content": "User prefers to be called by nickname 'Alex'",
  "visibility": "public",
  "importance": "normal"
}
```
