skills/send-reply/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: send-reply
description: |
  Send the final reply message to the user on the platform.
  This is the ONLY way to communicate with the user externally.
  Can only be called ONCE per interaction - subsequent calls will fail.
parameters:
  type: object
  properties:
    message:
      type: string
      description: The final message to send to the user
    attachments:
      type: array
      items:
        type: object
        properties:
          type:
            type: string
            enum: [image, file]
          url:
            type: string
          filename:
            type: string
      description: Optional attachments to include
  required: [message]
---

# Send Reply Skill

Send your final response to the user. This is the gateway to external communication.

## Critical Rules

1. **One reply only**: You can only send ONE reply per interaction
2. **This is the ONLY external output**: All other processing remains internal
3. **Make it complete**: Ensure your reply addresses the user's request fully

## Guidelines

- Be conversational and natural
- Address all parts of the user's message
- Don't mention internal processing steps

## Example

```json
{
  "message": "Hello! I remember you mentioned you like hiking. How was your recent trip?",
  "attachments": []
}
```

Commit message:

feat: add MCP tool provider for external AI agent integration
- Add @modelcontextprotocol/sdk and zod dependencies to deno.json
- Create src/mcp/server.ts with MCP server implementation exposing 5 tools
- Register memory_save, memory_search, memory_patch, send_reply, fetch_context tools
- Add MCP environment types and module exports
- Update AGENTS.md with MCP architecture diagram and documentation
- Add mcp:start and mcp:dev tasks for running MCP server
- Update all SKILL.md files with mcp_tool field and MCP usage sections
- Create docs/MCP.md with comprehensive MCP integration guide

This enables GitHub Copilot CLI, VS Code Copilot, and other MCP-compatible
hosts to interact with the chatbot's memory system and context features
via stdio JSON-RPC protocol, providing an alternative to ACP client mode.

Signed-off-by: Jim Chen <Jim@ChenJ.im>

skills/send-reply/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: send-reply
mcp_tool: send_reply
description: |
  Send the final reply message to the user on the platform.
  This is the ONLY way to communicate with the user externally.
  Can only be called ONCE per interaction - subsequent calls will fail.
  NOTE: In MCP mode, this returns the message as tool result instead of sending directly.
parameters:
  type: object
  properties:
    message:
      type: string
      description: The final message to send to the user
    attachments:
      type: array
      items:
        type: object
        properties:
          type:
            type: string
            enum: [image, file]
          url:
            type: string
          filename:
            type: string
      description: Optional attachments to include
  required: [message]
---

# Send Reply Skill

Send your final response to the user. This is the gateway to external communication.

## MCP Tool

This skill is exposed as an MCP tool: `send_reply`

To use via MCP, call the `send_reply` tool with the parameters described above.

> [!NOTE]
> In MCP mode, this tool returns the message as the tool result instead of
> sending it directly to the platform. The MCP host is responsible for delivering
> the message to the user.

## Critical Rules

1. **One reply only**: You can only send ONE reply per interaction
2. **This is the ONLY external output**: All other processing remains internal
3. **Make it complete**: Ensure your reply addresses the user's request fully

## Guidelines

- Be conversational and natural
- Address all parts of the user's message
- Don't mention internal processing steps

## Example

```json
{
  "message": "Hello! I remember you mentioned you like hiking. How was your recent trip?",
  "attachments": []
}
```
